---
title: "iOS"
description: "Rownd bindings for native iOS apps"
---

The Rownd SDK for iOS provides authentication, account and user profile
management, deep linking, encryption, and more for native iPhone, iPad, and even
macOS applications.

Using the Rownd platform, you can easily bring the same authentication on your
website to your mobile apps. Or if you only authenticate users on your mobile
apps, you can streamline the authentication process using Rownd's passwordless
sign-in links, enabling you to seamlessly authenticate users from an app link
sent to their email or phone number.

Once a user is authenticated, you can retrieve and update their profile
information on the fly using native APIs. Leverage Rownd's pre-built mobile app
components to give users profile management tools. Additionally, you can manage
encryption of data on-device before sending it back to Rownd or your own
backend.

### Installation

In Xcode, select your project file, select the main target, then scroll down to
the "frameworks" section to add a package dependency to your project. See the
[official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/adding-package-dependencies-to-your-app)
for specific steps.

Enter this as the package repository URL:

```
https://github.com/rownd/ios.git
```

### Usage

#### Initializing the Rownd SDK

In your `AppDelegate` file, call the `Rownd.configure()` method during
application launch:

```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey : Any]? = nil) -> Bool {

    Task.init {
        await Rownd.configure(launchOptions: launchOptions, appKey: "YOUR_API_KEY")
    }

    return true
}
```

After initialization, your app will typically call `Rownd.requestSignIn()` at
some point, if the user is not already authenticated. This will display the
Rownd interface for authenticating the user. Once they complete the sign-in
process, an access token and the user's profile information will be available to
your app.

#### Handling authentication

Rownd leverages an observeable architecture to expose data to your app. This
means that as the Rownd state changes, an app can dynamically update without
complicated logic. For example, a view can display different information based
on the user's authentication status.

Here's an example SwiftUI view that displays different messages depending on the
user's authenticated status:

```swift
import SwiftUI
import Rownd

struct MyView: View {
    @StateObject var authState = Rownd.getInstance().state().subscribe { $0.auth }
    @StateObject var user = Rownd.getInstance().state().subscribe { $0.user.data }

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            HStack {
                Button(action: {
                    if authState.current.isAuthenticated {
                        Rownd.signOut()
                    } else {
                        Rownd.requestSignIn()
                    }
                },
                       label: {
                    Text(!authState.current.isAuthenticated ? "Sign in" : "Sign out")
                })
                Spacer()
                if authState.current.isAuthenticated {
                    Button(action: {

                    }, label: {
                        Text(user.current?["first_name"]?.value as? String)
                    })
                }
            }
            .padding(.horizontal)
        }
    }
}

struct MyView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        MyView()
    }
}
```

You can subscribe to any state object that Rownd supports. Here's a list of
available states and their structures:

**.auth**

```swift
public struct AuthState {
    public var accessToken: String?     // Current, valid access token for the user (valid for one hour)
    public var isVerifiedUser: Bool?    // Whether the current user has verified at least one identifier (e.g., email)
}
```

**.user**

```swift
public struct UserState {
    public var id: String?                           // The user's ID as known to Rownd
    public var data: Dictionary<String, AnyCodable>  // Contains key/value pairs for the current user based on your Rownd's app config
    public var redacted: [String]                    // An array of field keys that the current user has disabled your app from accessing
}
```

### API reference

In addition to the state observable APIs, Rownd provides imperative APIs that
you can call to request sign in, get and retrieve user profile information,
retrieve a current access token, or encrypt user data with the user's local key.

#### Rownd.requestSignIn() -> Void

Opens the Rownd sign-in dialog for authentication.

#### Rownd.requestSignIn(with: RowndSignInHint) -> Void

Requests a sign-in with a specific authentication provider (e.g., Sign in with
Apple). Rownd treats this information as a hint. It will be honored if the
specified authentication provider is enabled within your Rownd app
configuration. If not, Rownd will fall back to the default flow.

Supported values:

- `.appleId` - Prompt user to sign in with their Apple ID

#### Rownd.user.get() -> `Dictionary<String`, `AnyCodable>`

Returns the entire user profile as a dictionary object

#### Rownd.user.get(field: String) -> T?

Returns the value of a specific field in the user's data dictionary. `"id"` is a
special case that will return the user's ID, even though it's technically not in
the dictionary itself.

Your application code is responsible for knowing which type the value should
cast to. A `nil` value will be returned If the cast fails or the entry doesn't
exist.

#### Rownd.user.set(data: `Dictionary<String`, `AnyCodable>) -> void`

Replaces the user's data with that contained in the dictionary. This may
overwrite existing values, but must match the schema you defined within your
Rownd application dashboard. Any fields that are flagged as `encrypted` will be
encrypted on-device before storing in Rownd's platform.

Hint: use `AnyCodable.init(value)` to conform your values to the required type.

#### Rownd.user.set(field: String, value: AnyCodable) -> void

Sets a specific user profile field to the provided value, overwriting if a value
already exists. If the field is flagged as `encrypted`, it will be encrypted
on-device before storing in Rownd's platform.

<Tip>
  Use `AnyCodable.init(value)` to conform your values to the required type.
</Tip>

### Data encryption

As indicated previously, Rownd can automatically assist you in protecting
sensitive user data by encrypting it on device with a user's unique encryption
key before saving it in Rownd's own platform storage.

When you configure your app within the Rownd platform, you can indicate that it
supports on-device encryption. When this flag is set, Rownd will automatically
generate a cryptographically secure, unrecoverable encryption key on the user's
device after they sign in. The key is stored in the device Keychain, and all
encryption is handled on the device. The key is never transmitted to Rownd's
servers, and the Rownd SDK does not provide any APIs for your code to
programmatically retrieve the encryption key.

Only fields that you designate `encrypted` are encrypted on-device before
storing within Rownd. Some identifying fields like email and phone number do not
support on-device encryption at this time since they are frequently used for
indexing purposes.

Of course, all data within the Rownd platform is encrypted at rest on disk and
in transit, but this does not afford the same privacy guarantees as data
encrypted on a user's local device. For especially sensitive data, we recommend
enabling field-level encryption.

<Note>
  Data encrypted on-device will not be accessible by you, the app developer,
  outside of the context of your app. In other words, your app can use encrypted
  data in its plaintext (decrypted) form while the user is signed in, but you
  won't be able to retrieve that data from the Rownd servers in a decrypted
  form. For data that you choose to encrypt, you should never transmit the plain
  text value across a network.
</Note>

In some cases, you may want to encrypt data on-device that you'll send to your
own servers for storage. Rownd provides convenience methods to encrypt and
decrypt that data with the same user-owned key.

#### Rownd.user.encrypt(plaintext: String) throws -> String

Encrypts the provided String `data` using the user's symmetric encryption key
and returns the ciphertext as a string. You can encrypt anything that can be
represented as a string (e.g., Int, Dictionary, Array, etc), but it's currently
up to you to get it into a string format first.

If the encryption fails, an `EncryptionError` will be thrown with a message
explaining the failure.

#### Rownd.user.decrypt(ciphertext: String) throws -> String

Attempts to decrypt the provided String `data`, returning the plaintext as a
string. If the data originated as some other type (e.g., Dictionary), you'll
need to decode the data back into its original type.

If the decryption fails, an `EncryptionError` will be thrown with a message
explaining the failure.

<Note>
Encryption is only possible once a user has authenticated. Rownd
supports multiple levels of authentication (e.g., guest, unverified, and
verified), but the lowest level of authentication must be achieved prior to
encrypting or decrypting data. If you need to explicitly check whether
encryption is possible at a specific point in time, call
`Rownd.user.isEncryptionPossible() -> Bool` prior to calling `encrypt()` or
`decrypt()`.

</Note>
