---
title: "Examples: Defining user data locations"
---

User data can exist in various locations throughout a database. The following
are some examples of various scenarios and how to define the user data locations
appropriately.

### User Data Stored in a Single Location

If your user data is stored under a single database path, defining the user data
locations is quite simple.

#### Example Database

```json
{
  "users": {
    "user1": {
      "email": "john@gmail.com",
      "first_name": "John",
      "last_name": "Doe"
    },
    "user2": {
      "email": "jane@gmail.com",
      "first_name": "Jane",
      "last_name": "Doe"
    }
  },

  "otherData": {}
}
```

#### User Data Location

- Path: `/users`

- Foreign Key: _not required_

- Reference: _not required_

The `Foreign Key` and `Reference` are not required since the user data is stored
in one location. There are no other locations in the database that reference
this path or contain additional personal data.

### User data stored in multiple locations

When user data is stored in multiple locations in the database, you will use a
combination of all three location fields `Path`, `Foreign Key`, and `Reference`.
The following example will help you see how and when to use the two different
types of `Foreign Key` values.

#### Example Database

```json
{
  "users": {
    "user123": {
      "first_name": "John",
      "last_name": "Doe"
    }
  },
  "addresses": {
    "user123": {
      "street": "1974 Wolfpack Ln",
      "city": "Raleigh",
      "state": "NC",
      "zip": "27608"
    }
  },
  "emailVerification": {
    "ev123": {
      "email": "john@gmail.com",
      "userId": "user123",
      "verified": true
    }
  }
}
```

#### User Data Locations

For this example, we'll need to define several user data locations.

- Path: `/users`

- Foreign Key: _not required_

- Reference: _not required_

This location captures the database users the same way that we did it in the
first example.

- Path: `/addresses/{userId}`

- Foreign Key: `{userId}`

- Reference: `/users/{userId}`

This location will capture the database addresses and connect that data back to
the user objects. Notice that curly braces `{}` surround the `Foreign Key`. By
convention, the curly braces tell Rownd that the value of the foreign key comes
a path variable named `userId`.

Rownd will search the database for user data on the `/addresses` path. In this
example, it will find data at `/addresses/user123`. This will be the resolved
path, and the resolved foreign key value will be `user123`. Rownd will replace
`{userId}` in the `Reference` with `user123` and grab additional user data from
`/users/user123`.

The `Reference` value must always include the `Foreign Key`.

- Path: `/emailVerification`

- Foreign Key: `userId`

- Reference: `/users/{userId}`

This location will capture the user data stored under the `/emailVerification`
path. The lack of surrounding curly braces in the `Foreign Key` tells Rownd to
look for a corresponding _field_ within the database object at the resolved
path.

Rownd will search the database for user data on the `/emailVerification` path.
In this example, it will find data at `/emailVerification/ev123`. At that path,
Rownd will look for a field in the object named `userId`. It will find this
document:

```json
{
  "email": "john@gmail.com",
  "userId": "user123",
  "verified": true
}
```

In this case, the resolved foreign key value will be `user123`. Rownd will
replace the `userId` field in the `Reference` with `user123` and look for
additional user data on the `/users/user123` path.

### Using a wildcard path

There are cases where you may not know the exact path to user data because it is
stored under an arbitrary or unique field like an ID. In such a case, you can
use the `*` wildcard character in the `Path`. You can only use the wildcard
character once in a path, but it can be a powerful tool. Here is an example.

#### Example Database

```json
{
  "users": {
    "user123": {
      "profile": {
        "first_name": "John",
        "last_name": "Doe"
      }
    },
    "user456": {
      "profile": {
        "first_name": "Jane",
        "last_name": "Doe"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that the actual user data is stored within the `profile` key of the users
objects. To explicitly define paths for this user data, you would have to define
two user data locations:

- `/users/user123/profile`

- `/users/user456/profile`

That is unreasonable in a real-world scenario where you have thousands of users.
To handle these use cases, you can define a path with the wildcard character
like `/users/*/profile` to match all users and locate the data as existing in
the `profile` child field.

You can use the wildcard character `*` and a foreign key in the path. For
example, you could define a `Path` as `/orgs/*/users/{userId}` where `{userId}`
is the `Foreign Key.`

You can also use wildcards in `Reference` values.
